###The goals of the tool (what are you trying to show? Who is your intended audience?)

###Why you chose the type of tool you did (dashboard/exploration tool/narrative/infographic)

###How each feature (chart, interaction, etc.) contributes to meeting the visualization goals

My goal was to provide an overview of the summer olympics dataset for someone without any knowledge of the data and give them targeted opportunities to explore the data in more detail. I therefore designed a tool that is a mix between a dashboard and an exporation. The three charts that initially display are designed to show patterns and trends at a high level, provide a useful context in which to explore the detail of the two dynamic charts, and answer basic questions about the dataset such as: which countries have accumulated the most medals?, how have the olympics changed over time?, and what is the distribution of medals among athletes? These three charts are purposefully simple as to make the answers to these key questions clear. I selected a chloropleth map to show how medals are distributed across the world because it shows the viewer not just how many medals a given country has but regional trends. I portrayed the changes to the olympics over time in a line chart, as this is the norm for time series. I illustrated the distribution of medals among athletes who have won at least one medal as a histogram. As a supplement, I provided two additional charts for the user to explore data of interest to them. The breakdown of medals by country chart allows the viewer to see how a specific country's medals are distributed across sports and across time. The breakdown of medals by athlete chart allows the viewer to see how a highly decorated athlete's medals are distributed across events and across time.